gitbook/computer_security/crypto/asym-encrypt.md, before:

# Asymmetric-Key Encryption

**Asymmetric-key encryption** consists of three functions:

* `PK, SK = Key()` generates a public key `PK` and a secret key `SK`
* `E = Enc(PK, M)` encrypts a message `M` with public key `PK`
* `M = Dec(SK, E)` decrypts an encrypted message `E` with secret key `SK`

The advantage of asymmetric-key encryption is that no key-sharing is needed to communicate. All that is needed to send an encrypted message to someone is their public key `PK`. However, as only the recipient has `SK`, only the recipient can decrypt the message.

We say that an asymmetric-key encryption scheme is IND-CPA secure if attackers cannot distinguish between the encryptions of two equal length messages of their choosing. The security game corresponding to definition is the same as the security game for symmetric-key encryption schemes, except there is no query phase (as the attacker can encrypt messages themselves).

Two popular asymmetric-key encryption schemes are El Gamal and RSA. We will go over El Gamal because it is conceptually simpler and carries parallels with Diffie-Hellman. (Remark: regular RSA taught in number theory classes is deterministic. To make RSA IND-CPA secure, one must introduce some tweaks.)

## El Gamal Public Key Encryption

In El Gamal public-key encryption, there is a large public prime `p` shared by everyone.

To generate keys, do the following:

* Pick `1 < g < p` and `1 < SK < p-1`. `SK` will be the secret key. 
* The public key will be the pair `PK = (g^SK mod p, g)`

El Gamal then works like this:

* To encrypt message `0 < M < p`, pick a random `0 < R < p`. Get `PK = (g^SK mod p, g)` of the recipient. Then the ciphertext is the pair `E = (g^R mod p, m * PK^R mod p)`
* To decrypt, notice that `(g^R)^SK = PK^R mod p`. Do a (modulo) division to get `m`.

Commit message:

Added a statement saying that DH is secure if dis-log is NP hard

gitbook/computer_security/crypto/asym-encrypt.md, after:

# Asymmetric-Key Encryption

**Asymmetric-key encryption** consists of three functions:

* `PK, SK = Key()` generates a public key `PK` and a secret key `SK`
* `E = Enc(PK, M)` encrypts a message `M` with public key `PK`
* `M = Dec(SK, E)` decrypts an encrypted message `E` with secret key `SK`

The advantage of asymmetric-key encryption is that no key-sharing is needed to communicate. All that is needed to send an encrypted message to someone is their public key `PK`. However, as only the recipient has `SK`, only the recipient can decrypt the message.

We say that an asymmetric-key encryption scheme is IND-CPA secure if attackers cannot distinguish between the encryptions of two equal length messages of their choosing. The security game corresponding to definition is the same as the security game for symmetric-key encryption schemes, except there is no query phase (as the attacker can encrypt messages themselves).

Two popular asymmetric-key encryption schemes are El Gamal and RSA. These two encryption schemes are IND-CPA secure assuming the discrete logarithm and prime factorization are NP-hard problems. We will go over El Gamal because it is conceptually simpler and carries parallels with Diffie-Hellman. (Remark: regular RSA taught in number theory classes is deterministic. To make RSA IND-CPA secure, one must introduce some tweaks.)

## El Gamal Public Key Encryption

In El Gamal public-key encryption, there is a large public prime `p` shared by everyone.

To generate keys, do the following:

* Pick `1 < g < p` and `1 < SK < p-1`. `SK` will be the secret key. 
* The public key will be the pair `PK = (g^SK mod p, g)`

El Gamal then works like this:

* To encrypt message `0 < M < p`, pick a random `0 < R < p`. Get `PK = (g^SK mod p, g)` of the recipient. Then the ciphertext is the pair `E = (g^R mod p, m * PK^R mod p)`
* To decrypt, notice that `(g^R)^SK = PK^R mod p`. Do a (modulo) division to get `m`.
